Appearance

The ethical subtype is courteous and amiable, but stubborn and unyielding over important to him questions. Due to this can demonstrate excessive persistence. Inclined to finish what he has started. Finds it difficult to stop in timely manner, of which he may regret later. Tries to be serious, unobtrusive, and polite in dialogue, but often exerts strong emotional pressure upon those who, in his view, act wrongly. Likes to take his conversation partners by the hand, to touch their clothing. Knows how to host guests and visitors at home, but does so infrequently because he is more interested in public work and communication. Likes giving presents to people close to him and finds suitable occasions and reasons to do this. Dresses in good taste, with sufficient moderation. Gait is quick, a little jumpy. Figure is often thin and a little angular. His face may be expressing discontent and indignation, supplanted by a radiant smile.

Character

Optimistically oriented active person. Sociable, inquisitive, shares a lot of diverse information. Friendly, not envious, able to truly enjoy achievements and successes of others and willingly talks about his own. With interest and in detail describes the events that have taken place with him, or that he has heard of or read about. Enjoys discussing social issues. An opponent of empty waste of time, so tries to fill it with interesting experiences: visits to the movies, theater performances, exhibitions, friends, trips to nature, and so on. Likes capable, talented, and interesting people.

Flares up and feels an outrage when he encounters self-satisfied, critical-minded, or hypocritical people. From sense of justice can deliberately try to spoil their mood, even create an intolerable environment. Disproves of poor tastes, rudeness, lack of tact. Tries to instill good manners of behavior in people who are close to him. Often feels outraged at lack of order and fairness. Tries to look controlled and even, but doesn’t always accomplish this. His mood changes often, even for minor reasons.

Has a well developed sense of humor. Easily makes new contacts and friends of personal and business nature, but has few close friends, as not everyone can withstand his emotional pressure. Not very discerning in business and work related qualities of people.

Somewhat conservative and cautious in new endeavors as he doesn’t see future prospects well and is afraid of making mistakes. Prefers to act by tested methods, but at the same time doesn’t tolerate routine well. Very curious and not averse to try himself in something new. Can hesitate before making important decisions. Willingly listens to the advice of others, experiences doubts and fears making poorly thought out actions. Can step back from making a risky decision at the last moment.

Lighting up by some idea, he becomes its active supporter and promoter, tries to implement it into life, not sparing efforts nor time. Knows how to interest and involve people, persuading them to realize what he has planned. Shows patience and perseverance. Takes up new projects with much enthusiasm and tries to carry them through to completion.

Not very eager to take up domestic affairs and doesn’t follow particular order or schedule. If he’s not in the mood, may postpone chores or assignments until later. He gravitates more towards social activities, wants to benefit people. Doesn’t like running late to events, which happens rarely and only for serious reasons. Strives to dress according to fashion, even somewhat extravagantly, but more often dresses modestly.