Appearance

The sensory subtype is energetic, work-oriented, and practical. Emotional and sufficiently direct, but also well-wishing, sensitive, and responsive towards other people. Able to correct impressions caused by his sharp statements. Self-confident, daring, and skillful in his ability to become liked by others. Coquettish and pleasant, creates an intimate atmosphere in conversation. Demonstrates physical tenderness, often embraces those who are sympathetic to them. Attentive towards people, very caring, and helpful, yet sometimes may raise a scandal if he doesn’t like something. Has a sharp tongue, is not at a loss finding words, and is quick to respond in a conversation or argument. His speech, as a rule, is fast and emotional. He readily voices compliments, though sometimes with a little jab. Erratic and restless, but knows how to relax in an interesting and pleasant manner. Gourmand, knows how to cook well, and is hospitable. His mimicry is lively, movements are vigorous and gracious. Dresses exquisitely, with sophistication and charm. Often has a bit round figure. Likes expensive things, could be a spender.

Character

Lively, cheerful, energetic person. Well-wishing towards other people, courteous and helpful. A charming and interesting conversationalist, able to understand everyone, to find an individual approach, to cheer up with a good joke or a compliment. Well perceptive of others’ moods, sympathizes with them, tries to help by word or deed. Takes care of the weak and defenseless, kind and gentle with children. Aesthete, a good designer, dresses tastefully, tries to create comfort at his home and in the workplace. Hospitable, prefers a beautiful service and arrangement, and savory well prepared food. Likes to give gifts and arrange for pleasant surprises.

Sociable, attentive and responsive. Persistent and straightforward in relationships when he is convinced of his own correctness. Doesn’t know how to hide his feelings, both positive and negative. Irascible and short-tempered, but easily appeased and forgiving. Doesn’t tolerate hypocrisy, injustice, and cruelty. Capable of actively defending his interests and those of his loved ones, decisively rebuffs his opponents.

Hard-working, diligent, operational, and conscientious. In life, he achieves much by his own effort not relying on other people. Successfully takes up any practical activity and likes it when his efforts are appreciated. In the interests of his project or his case, he with enthusiasm visits all the appropriate centers and offices and files all the needed paperwork. A good organizer, who tries to create the conditions needed for effective work and encourages others to work actively.

Frequently gets overwhelmed by work, chores, and errands, both his own and those of others. Poorly calculates time, expending a lot of effort on secondary and minor things. Due to this, may run out of time and not finishing everything. Feels ashamed of such lack of organization and tries to discipline himself. Can be overly trusting and careless. Poorly foresees the outcome of a new venture or project. Because of this may commit rash actions, undertake wrong steps, and regret of them later. Doesn’t always listen to the advice of others - prefers to act in his own way.

Shows authoritativeness and rigor in business. Everything that he starts he tries to bring to its completion. Knows how to do a lot of things with his own hands.

Dislikes uncertainty in both professional and personal respects. Gravitates towards stability, both at work and in his personal life. Respects serious, reliable, goal-oriented people. Loves it when information is presented concisely and clearly, when the important parts are distinguished, and it is based on facts. Expresses his own opinion when he is competent in the given matter. Tries to be credible, authoritative, and painfully experiences criticism of his work and professional qualities.