Appearance

The ethical subtype usually makes an impression of a modest, gentle, soft person, but in his soul he is very principled, demanding, and distrustful. It is difficult to make him change his mind. Can be very stubborn and intractable. Sensitive, prudish, dislikes imposing his company. Internally highly critical and applies his high ethical standards to other people, though may not openly voice this. If his principles are touched, he can suddenly show his character, becoming sharp and uncompromising. Hardworking and practical. At work he is responsible and painstaking. Shows good manners, tries to be gracious and refined. Dresses with taste, though somewhat monotonously. His gaze is soft, at times frightened, and testing. In interactions with others, this is a soulful, attentive, caring and considerate person.

Character

Restrained, tactful, and polite in interaction. Discerning of relationships. Principled in matters of morality and responsibility. Distinguished by his sharp and categorical conclusions. He is constantly analyzing actions of other people and condemning any violations of moral and ethical norms. However, he tries to be more tolerant towards others and doesn’t immediately express his opinions if they are negative. Very observant: readily notices personal flaws and capabilities of other people. Remembers the mistakes of others for a long time, and if opportunity presents itself can resort to his “personal files”. May idealize those he is sympathetic towards from a distance. Demonstrates his attitude not only by words but also by actions.

This is a person of duty. Does not spare his time and effort for upkeep of order and stability at work. Does his work meticulously and thoroughly, overcoming any obstacles that arise on the way. Does not put off and delay everyday tasks and chores until later. Makes himself to do work that is uninteresting but necessary. Helps out others with work that they cannot cope with by the deadlines. Very conscientious, aware of his obligations, and responsible person, but prefers to share responsibility with others. Inclined to sit at work late, trying to finish up everything. Accurately maintains records.

Careful, guarded and distrustful, afraid of making mistakes and letting down others. Painfully endures injustice and critical remarks regarding his abilities. Needs praise and compliments, though usually he does not show this. Tries to exercise foresight in everything, so that any unexpected events don’t catch him by surprise. Prefers to plan for future activities. Prepares for everything in advance, is punctual and usually does not run late.

Does not give any promises if he is unsure that he can fulfill them. Shy and indecisive, dislikes imposing anything on strangers. Appreciates comfort, both at his workplace and in relationships. Expresses his attitude not so much by words, as by the tone of his voice and look.

Stable and in his habits, interests and affections. Yielding in relations, may put aside his own affairs to solve problems of his partner. Very impressionable and vulnerable, but shares his sufferings only with his close ones. Values friendship and does not forgive betrayal. Considerate and courteous. Modest and undemonstrative, tries not to stand out. Dresses simply, but with good taste.