Appearance

The sensory subtype is quite strict, critical, and ironic. Categorical in conclusions and uncompromising in decisions. Internally sensitive and emotional, but tries to appear as strong, cold, self-assured person. Serious, guarded, and private. Conservative in his tastes and habits. Diligent in work, though sometimes he lacks in attention and perseverance to complete his assignments. At times seems unapproachable, arrogant, and prickly. His gaze is piercing. His face sometimes assumes a guarded expression. Well-wishing and attentive, but keeps at a distance from others. Quite undemonstrative. Dislikes it when his appearance is inspected; afraid of external evaluations. Takes care of his looks, dresses elegantly, with taste and a bit of strictness. If he is confident in his appearance, may allow himself to wear additional accessories. His gait is often hammering.

Character

Stubborn, firm, and uncompromising in matters that are of importance to him. Strong-willed and enduring. Industrious and venturesome. Energetic and quick in handling practical matters. Can do several things at once, showing extraordinary work ethic and efficiency. From time to time, needs an emotional discharge. Difficult life situations invigorate him and stimulate him to search for quick solutions and exits out of current circumstances. With difficulty takes the initiative in making new acquaintances and establishing new contacts, but usually takes the first steps in breaking off relations that have run their course. Observant and clever, at the right time can hit the weakest spot of his opponent. To good and poor treatment answers with the same. Has a tendency to divide people into “his own” and “others”.

Seems somewhat inaccessible, vigilant, and alert. Dislikes it when someone puts his qualities to an evaluation because internally he is not fully confident in himself. Intolerant of those who are lazy, slovenly, and disingenuous. Does not forgive rudeness and tactlessness, which may even serve as a reason to break up relations for him. In a company of unfamiliar or unpleasant people, he feels constrained and may choose to leave quietly. Does not like unexpected visitors, quickly becomes tired of them. At times he is overly distrustful and suspicious of others.

In conversation with people tries to determine their abilities and possibilities for future practical application in some area. Tries to evaluate people objectively, regardless of his sympathies for them. Often possesses good administrative skills. In his decisions seeks to rely on factual information.

In a circle of close people, he is usually talkative, makes jokes, sometimes asks tricky questions, inclined to play pranks and set up ruses; attempts to entertain others. Subordinates his emotions to the situation: he is cheerful among those who are cheerful and serious among those who are serious. Defends and upholds ethical standards. Selflessly protects his own interests and interest of people who are close to him. Able to make others subjugate to his will. In difficult situations, readily lends his help to others and offers his services. Tries not to show his anger and spite openly, but not everyone can withstand his penetrating, prickly gaze.

Places high demands on himself. Quickly adapts to new circumstances if he finds them favorable. Poorly tolerates ambivalence and hesitation. Finds it difficult to wait for resolution of important for him questions. Often fluctuates in selection of a goal, but at a critical moment he can make the right decision. Poorly feels the progression of time; due to this, grows nervous getting ready for anything, feels anxious that he won’t make it on time. Feels worried concerning upcoming changes, for example, when he has to take a trip. Cherishes stability, supports conventions of his own circle. Somewhat suspicious and skeptical.