Appearance

The ethical subtype is artistic, impatient, a little extravagant. Unpredictable in his actions and statements. Like to surprise or entertain people around him, and even insignificant events present as big sensations. Frequently becomes the soul of the company: he is self-assured, has a good sense of humor, independent, original, and very impulsive. Characterized by a kind of sincerity and spontaneity similar to a small child who doesn’t hide his feelings. Can create familiar, homelike environment for communication even with unfamiliar to him people. Readily gives compliments, voices his admirations of people around him. Optimistic and amiable. Charming and coquettish, but too direct and rash in his statements and actions. This creates an impression of seeming availability or theatricality. At times assertive and pushy, periodically becomes focused. Looks directly at someone, attentively, not blinking. Movements are sharp and decisive. Gait is rapid and directed, assured, although somewhat angular. Often has a somewhat round face. Likes to dress originally, with taste, to impress others and to be liked by them.

Character

Single-minded, purposeful, determined, active and mobile. Clever, inventive, and resourceful in solving any problems. Believes in good luck no matter what happens. With his energy, optimism, and hard work he usually achieves his goals. He is able to overcome great obstacles. It is difficult for him to prepare for something in advance, he prefers impromptu improvisations. Sometimes he does even the incredible at the last moment, when seemingly there were no chances. Does not become lost under any circumstances. Even if he’s unsure of himself, demonstrates courage and determination, with which he can psychologically disarm an opponent.

Emotional, sociable, and welcoming. Knows how to find an approach to each person. Seems somewhat affectatious in his behavior. Readily gives compliments to people with a sincere desire to raise their mood and spirits, to do something pleasant for them. Tries to encourage everyone, to instill confidence in success. Charming and diplomatic. Of flaws and shortcomings speaks in a joking manner, so as not to offend. Talks of his own difficulties and troubles with humor, due to which some may come to view him as a carefree, light-minded, unproblematic person. Due to his desire to maintain good relations with everyone can overload himself with unnecessary contacts. Not accepting of conventions and prejudices. Trusting by nature: in a conversation can say too much, considering secrecy a sign of cowardice or insecurity.

Tries to be the center of attention and to be liked by everyone. Likes to win over people, but usually doesn’t go beyond this. Inclined to quickly become disappointed in the objects of his sympathy. Very much dependent on his moods, which sometimes affects his close relationships. Impulsive and straightforward, sometimes extravagant and unpredictable in his actions, but always interesting to people around him. Tries to be aware of the various events, so that given an opportunity he can stun others with original new, to tell them something extraordinary, sensational, spectacular. Has well-developed imagination, and in the course of telling a story adds interesting details, in which he himself may come to believe. At times confuses reality and imaginative fiction.

Enthusiastically defends his views and opinions. An opponent of hierarchy and rank subordination. Doesn’t become timid before his superiors, boldly defends his point of view and interests. Impressionable and easily takes offense. Can be hot tempered, unrestrained, at times even aggressive. However, easily moves on and forgives. Not envious, sincerely rejoices at the successes of others. Seems organic, natural, free and unconstrained in his behavior. Creates a trusting atmosphere in interaction and knows how to diffuse a tense situation.