Appearance

The intuitive subtype makes an impression of a person somewhat torn away from reality, internally focused, and at the same time scattered. Inclined to unexpected contrasts in behavior: shyness and apathy are suddenly replaced by emotional elation, decisiveness, and activity, the melancholic look on his face changes to inspired and joyful. Thoughtful and impulsive, optimistic and suppressed, timid and energetic, he imparts very varied impressions on others. Internally inconsistent, vulnerable, easily offended, but hides his problems under a mask of being carefree. Tries to be friendly with everyone, strives to understand all people, to favor everyone with his smile. Attentive, soft and tactful, predisposing towards trust. Willingly delves into the problems of others, tries to find a way out of difficult position and to give useful advice. Defends his views emotionally. Can exert psychological pressure on his opposition. His movements are impulsive, not well coordinated, and somewhat angular. Gait is fast and a bit awkward. Chin is often pointed. Gaze is attentive, interrogative or surprised, penetrating and perceptive.

Character

Very perceptive. Has a good sense for hidden motivations of people. Especially acutely sees people’s flaws, but tries not to show it to not offend anyone. Before him it is pointless to pretend. He hates falsity and hypocrisy. Forgiving towards various human weaknesses. Friendly and responsive, sympathizes with people, likes giving them advice in difficult life situations. Always see several varied solutions to the problem, and suggest a resolution or exit even in the most hopeless cases. He has the gift of persuasion, uplifts despairing people and inspires them to overcome the difficulties.

Discerning of people’s abilities. Gravitates towards talented and extraordinary personalities. Likes new experiences and impressions. Interested in all that is unusual and mysterious. Curious, reads much and reflects. This is a creative personality. Analyzes everything - tries to understand the essence of different phenomena. Feels bored if he doesn’t find a use for his abilities: from routine his vitality wanes. Tends to periodically change jobs or his hobbies, to test himself in a new pursuits, until he finds an occupation that he sincerely enjoys. He is constantly experimenting, looking for new directions and approaches in his work. He is very demanding towards himself and towards others in creative sense. Always can find flaws and faults and is therefore never completely happy with what has been done. Becoming inspired by any idea becomes its active supporter. Persistently promotes and develops it, not sparing his time and efforts.

Has a holistic, global approach to solving problems. Difficulties do not frighten him, but in the reverse they attract him. When he starts on one thing, he sees everything that is somehow related to it. Experiences difficulties in connection this, when there is a need to select the main important aspects and push aside all those secondary. Tries to finish the whole load of assignments and chores at once, as a result of which he overworks himself and loses faith in their own strengths. In such cases, needs a long rest and to focus his attention on something else. After this, gets back to work with renewed enthusiasm and completes his assignments. Cannot stand when he is subjected to a strict work schedule or when someone tightly manages his activities. Prefers to have independence that would allow him to live freely, by his own schedule, and to retain his individuality.