Appearance

The intuitive subtype appears as a calm, tactful, languid and diffident individual. He seems torn from reality, inert and poorly adapted to life. However, such impressions are erroneous, for he possesses a fine intuition, which aids him in establishing useful connections and obtaining support from influential people. Externally he seems serene, but in his heart he is sentimentally predisposed, has bouts of moodiness and melancholy, and regrets his mistakes and misfortunes for a long time. His mimicry is somewhat monotonous, often shows an expression of light amazement or full interest in his conversation partner. His gaze is dreamy and pensive, slightly strained, with a bit of luster, often expressing melancholy, attentiveness, or sardonic irony. His speech is measured, smooth, and intimately heart-felt. On his face there is almost constantly a polite half-smile that easily predisposes towards trust. Gestures are modest, timid, undemonstrative. Gait is unhurried and smooth.

Character

Soft and considerate person. In his heart he is a dreamer and a romantic. Has figurative, associative memory, and can recall experiences from the past down to the smallest detail. Somewhat unsure in himself, inclined to doubt and hesitate in cases he has to speak or act decisively. He does not like to hurry, can delay carrying out tasks and finding solutions to problems to an indefinite period of time. Reminiscing about the past, he recalls all the mistakes and mishaps, then extracts from them lessons for the future. Thanks to a strong intuition sees short-term prospects of affairs and relations, but because of the tendency to idealize everything may also overestimate them. Under any circumstances does not lose hope that in future everything will turn out for the better than in the present situation.

Usually does not aspire to leadership and finds it difficult and tiring to handle organizational functions. Gravitates more towards intellectual sphere of activity than towards hands-on management and production. Dislikes routine, monotony, stereotypes, conventionality, strict order, having to follow rules and regulations. Likes to talk about various unconventional and mysterious phenomena, seeks new experiences, feels attracted to interesting and unusual people. Willingly accepts and promotes unordinary ideas and innovative approaches, but shows caution in new ventures; in such cases prefers to yield initiative to those who are more assertive and energetic. However, if necessary, exhibits outstanding diplomatic skills, achieving success where others, more straightforward and impatient partners who do not attribute much value to flexibility in relationships, would usually give up. Does not know which of the two disputants he should favor, therefore, will try to reconcile them.

In work can become distracted by irrelevant details, and thus run out of time to accomplish the more important tasks. In his apartment or at his workplace may allow for creative mess and disorganization. Being practical, thrifty, and calculating is not in his nature, due to which he misses some major opportunities. Respects strong, influential people. Needs moral, physical, and material support. Due to absentmindedness sometimes forgets to fulfill his promises, but then does his best to make up and make amends.

Sensitive and attentive to other people, tries to maintain even relations with everyone. Exhibits tolerance towards the flaws and weaknesses of others. Does not break immediately those relationships that have been exhausted for he grows used to people. Knows how to patiently wait and how to adapt to any circumstances. For the sake of good relations with those close to him, tries to meet their requirements for him, to develop practical skills, to perform at school and work, and to fulfill his family responsibilities.