Appearance

The ethical subtype makes an impression of a soft, charming and emotional person. Usually looks inspired and optimistic. Possess a fine sense of humor. May talk of his problems and failures with a smile. Ironic, crafty, unpredictable and inconsistent in behavior and conversation. Creates original contrasts, can unexpectedly jab at someone and then just as quickly embrace and kiss his conversation partner. Artistic and charming; unconstrained in conversation, occasionally even with shades of familiarity and impudence. Knows how to bridge the distance. Considerate, tactful, and caring; at times he is simply charming, so great is his talent at positively predisposing others to himself and being liked. Talented at persuasion: states requests in such a manner that it is difficult to refuse them. His movements are refined ; his gait is graceful, hasty. Speech is full of emotion, rich with shades, sometimes melodious.

Character

Emotional and charming, easily and naturally comes into contact with unfamiliar people, predisposing them towards trust with his warmth and sincerity. Able to cheer others up, make them laugh with his unusual antics and utterances. Well versed in feelings and moods of people, able to establish and maintain useful contacts for reaching his goals and to find best suited candidates for implementation of the conceived. To each person he is able to find an individual approach. Often puts his requests in such a form that it is difficult to turn him down. Independent by nature, impulsive, unpredictable in his actions; given to impromptu acts and improvisations. Unobtrusive with his feelings - if he does not see reciprocity, he will distance. Consults with others before making important decisions, though does not always follow their advice.

Elegant, skillful in becoming liked, readily gives out compliments. Enjoys being at the center of the attention. Figuratively and with a refined sense of humor retells stories of his experiences. Enjoys and knows how to reconcile those who are arguing. Sometimes he is given to irony and ridicule, but says even unpleasant things as if in jest and with a smile.

Very much in need of praise and encouragement. Sensitive of criticism of his work or investing effort that has not been appreciated; this lowers his productivity. While if he is praised in advance, this encourages him to strive to overcome difficulties and aid him in gaining confidence. In his heart he is very vulnerable and acutely aware of his failures. Internally contradictory, prone to abrupt mood swings: from laughter to tears and in reverse. Easy lights up with a new idea, but can quickly lose interest if it requires a lot of patience and effort for realization. Passionately tries to prove his correctness; accepts advice only after he has calmed down, and even then only until the next emotional outburst. Needs support of a strong-willed, capable, energetic person.

Somewhat distrustful and suggestible. Readily shares his problems with others, seeking their sympathy, understanding, and support. Inclined to demonstrate his physical or personal sufferings. Sensing danger, he transmits his apprehensive and restless mood to those around him. Nonchalant and imperturbable, but this is only a tactic that allows him to make a good impression. Sometimes he evokes awe and admiration in others by demonstrating fearlessness in dangerous situations. His composed serene state is transmitted onto others, allowing them to distance from their everyday worries and problems.

Graceful in his movements, shows refinement, good manners, dresses tastefully. Fastidious in his household. Possesses an aesthetic taste, appreciates ornaments and decorations. Enjoys comfort. Cares about his own appearance as well as appearance of others. Wasteful and uneconomical; can purchase needless things; dislikes those who are frugal over minor purchases. Does not attach much value to material things, and thus can be careless with them. Borrowing or lending something, may forget about it for a long time.