Appearance

Makes an impression of a mobile, energetic, action-oriented and strict person. Facial expressions lack in emotionality. Looks directly, at point-blank range, studying his conversation partner, with his gaze focusing for a long time on his conversation partner or on objects in his surroundings. A bit timid and diffident, though tries to hide this. At times, he is overly mistrustful, critical, and excessively categorical. It is difficult to distract him from what he has planned, tries to bring everything he has conceived to completion. Despite his tendency to think and reflect, he is decisive and impulsive in words and in action. Inclined to have longs talks. Seems somewhat uptight and strained in conversation due to his desire to appear self-controlled, composed, serious person with foresight. His apparent slowness suddenly changes to haste and hurriedness. In most cases, his figure looks solid and stocky in built, though somewhat rigid and angular in movements. Tries to hold himself with dignity and confidence. If he jokes, does it with a serious look, smiling only with the corners of his mouth.

Character

Hardworking and alert. Eagerly gets involved in various activities and business that bring concrete results and benefits. Usually well-informed, and tries to be credible and authoritative. Plans everything advance, collects needed information for data driven solutions. Strives for clarity and accuracy in all matters. Pragmatic: will not take up useless and payless work. Leery of new proposals that are not supported by convincing evidence. Cautious in his new endeavors. Prefers testing new ideas in practice, to avoid making mistakes. Being convinced in future benefits of a certain idea, tries to realize it into real life with much enthusiasm and energy.

He is never satisfied with the current events. Always searching for ways of changing, polishing, and improving the existing. Has a critical turn of mind, and an inclination towards polemics. Enjoys developing new projects and promising plans. Separates a given goal into steps, and subsequently carries them out, thus bringing his given goal to its completion. Dislikes being distracted from his work or business, and when others interfere with his focus or try to impose others methods and courses of actions. Quite principled in his views and convictions. It is difficult to persuade him, or convince him otherwise.

Strives towards order, logical and rational sense in everything, though he’s not always able to achieve this. Interested in the worldly value of things. Stimulates other people to activity and work by his own example, as well as by making agreements on mutually beneficial conditions. Poorly tolerates trickery and cunning. Respects people of their word and deed. Not afraid of challenges and obstacles. Interested in testing himself in extreme conditions, in overcoming all hardships and coming through as the winner. Under any circumstances, shows fortitude, tenacity, optimism and endurance.

In matters and issues of principle to him can show firmness and intractability, defending the ideals of fairness and humanism. Negatively refers to unceremoniousness and abuse. Correct and restrained in his statements, tries to create a casual atmosphere in conversation by his democratic attitude and humor. Good storyteller, describes events in all detail. Readily shares his impressions and sensations with people around him. Holds himself with seriousness and dignity, shows good manners, politeness and courtesy. Doesn’t tolerate when he is treated with disrespect, can flare up and lose his temper in such cases.