Appearance

The sensory subtype is characterized by stability and high capacity for work. Usually energetic, he cannot sit without some task or activity, and waste his time in vain. Interested in new technologies within his field of occupation or study, knows how to adapt them to his needs. Impulsive, perseverant, and pushy, knows how to passionately persuade his partner. Demanding and strict, but sometimes gives in to persuasions. Has a sense of humor. His speech is gusty and emotional. Often, one can see a predisposing although a bit strained smile on his face. Sometimes he makes attempts to shorten the personal distance by welcoming, friendly gestures - hugs, pats, light touches of his conversation partner. Holds himself uninhibitedly, relaxed and at ease. Constructive and energetic in participating in a discussion, makes jokes. Gourmand and aesthete. Likes expensive, high quality, beautiful things and dishes. Knows how to remove strain, sitting at the table with his friends. But does not allow himself to remain inactive and at rest for long. Usually has somewhat round body shape, inclined towards corpulence. His movements are gusty, abrupt, fast and impulsive. He is quite restless.

Character

Energetically fights for the quality of done work. Constantly improves his own level of qualification, becoming a good specialist in his field. With interest listens to a variety of rationalization proposals, not averse to test them in practice, although he’s more trusting of proven methods and technology. Ensures that the necessary instructions and conditions of work are followed and maintained. Likes to do much with his hands. Inventive and resourceful in practical matters.

Bold, decisive, operative and assertive. Possesses willpower and likes to work hard. Enthusiastically takes up implementation of his projects. Defends his interests with tenacity and passion, disregarding any authorities. A good organizer, for the people around him he can create the conditions for accurate, concerted work. Quickly orients in any situation, indispensable in extreme situations. Able to accurately make the right choice and can mobilize all others for carrying out the needed tasks.

Excitable and addictive personality. With his optimism tries to cheer up others, to activate and mobilize them for doing something. In the interest of his work or business knows how to manifest diplomatic skill: positively predisposes others with amiability, courteousness, wit and personal warmth. For achieving a goal, shows all different shades of emotion, up to aggression, but if he sees that others are not afraid of him, becomes polite and considerate.

Cannot stand uncertainty. Prolonged waits for some event weight him down. By nature he is impatient: dislikes delaying and postponing realization of undertaken decisions. Takes up assignments and tasks immediately, but if something goes wrong, may put it aside for a while, then come back to finish it. Emotional and gusty. Due to this, may show impulsiveness and recklessness in his actions and statements. Remembers his past mistakes and is not ashamed to talk about them. In any situation, does not lose his heart and spirit.

Aesthete: values beauty in any of its manifestations. Creates comfort and beautifully arranges his home. Dress with a sense of taste, although a bit strictly. Handles his personal belongings with great care, and loves it when things get put in their places. Polite and somewhat prudish in communication, although sometimes his sense of tact fails him. Adheres to established rules of interpersonal conduct, and requires the same from others. Strives for harmony in relationships with others. Feels unsettled and upset when he runs into differences in views and approaches to problem solving. He is much in need of approval of his actions and personal qualities. Impressionable and vulnerable. Poorly receives criticism, even if it’s delivered in soft or joking manner.