Appearance

The logical subtype seems impersonal, business-like, dry and correct in interaction. May look strict and unapproachable. Not inclined to make jokes, has a serious and constrained demeanor about him. Usually is not very talkative, but if his temper runs hot it’s difficult to stop him. Direct and linear in behavior and conversation. Can be sharp and categorical in his judgments, due to which accumulates many problems of ethical nature. At another end of extreme, he may not say anything, but later build up grudges and hard feelings, and avoid interaction. Uncompromising and stubborn. Sometimes tries to predispose his conversation partner towards him by intimate tones in conversation. Does this if he himself is predisposed towards greater intimacy, or if he needs some kind of information or service. Mistrustful, secretive and suspicious. Dislikes talking about feelings. Prefers to engage himself in something useful, and to bring everything he undertakes to its completion. Constantly tense, finds it difficult to relax and discharge. He is predisposed towards sudden flashes of anger. Seems restrained in his movements.

Character

A realist, who possesses clear logical thinking: he is able to assess any situation soberly and quickly. Enjoys order in everything. Easily makes his way through instructions and laws. Respects people who are competent, and himself strives to keep informed about everything. Relays information in form of concise, clear expressions, and demands the same clear and concrete answers from other people. Very pragmatic, evaluates actions of people not only in terms of their honesty and integrity, but also of expediency.

Has good management and organizational talents, but lacks in diplomacy and tact in relationships. Stubborn and inflexible, straightforward and artless, blunt and categorical in his statements. Because of this, he has a lot of ethical issues with other people, and few friends. Usually, he is certain of his own correctness and likes it when others listen to his advice. Finds it difficult to admit his own mistakes and go for concessions and compromises, even if this undermines his relationship with other people.

Capable of clearly assigning responsibilities and strictly and persistently checking upon their implementation. Doesn’t go easy on anyone, shows a principled and intransigent attitude in this matter. Does not act on behalf of feelings, both his own and those of others. Constantly monitors the discipline and order. Due to his wish to accomplish more, he is not sufficiently attentive to convenience in the workplace. Negatively judges the lazy and the fantasists, dislikes tricksters and cheats. He is distinguished by a strong sense of duty and an extraordinary capacity for work. Very courageous and hardy. Dislikes talking about health, considering this to be pusillanimity and weakness.

Very punctual. Values time and does not like to waste it in vain. Tries to predict the outcome of a proposed project or course of action. Doesn’t trust new ideas, prefers to not take risks in vain. Quite conservative in his tastes and habits. If his work is criticized by incompetent people, he can lose his temper and flare up. Doesn’t tolerate when he is being hurried or distracted from work. Sometimes, striving for top quality in his work, and getting bogged down by details, he does not finish his job on time. Gets very upset over this, so tries to plan things in advance.

A good financier, who can rationally handle money. Economic, calculating, and prudent. He likes working with numbers and factual concrete information. Gravitates towards such areas of activity as statistics and planning. Loves stability, reliability, and thoroughness in everything. Prefers quality and practical use of things to their aesthetics and fashion. A good manager of his own household. Quick and adept in domestic matters.