Appearance

The logical subtype is self-assured, calm, restrained, correct and impenetrable. At times he may seem arrogant. Sufficiently kind, imperturbable, and unemotional. Very polite and attentive to details in conversation, likes to specify and clarify everything, but sometimes becomes too focused on details that are nonessential to others. Unhurried, perhaps even slow. Likes receiving exhaustively comprehensive and thorough information to his inquiries. Dislikes ambiguity. Internally, he is quite collected. Never loses his spirit and sense of perseverance. Tries to encourage those who are in need of support. Has a direct, motionless gaze that seems to look right through and not at his conversation partner. His movements are measured but constrained; there is a tendency to shuffle his feet against the floor when walking. When he turns, he does so with his entire body such that it sometimes seems like his neck is fixed to his shoulders; doesn’t like to turn his head.

Character

A sober realist who knows how to find a way out of difficult situations. Stoic: overcomes difficulties without complaining. Dislikes running too much ahead and is able to patiently wait for the outcome. It is difficult to convince him to change his stances. He is uncompromising in matters that he considers to be important. Prefers to prepare for everything in advance since he doesn’t like improvising; feels uncomfortable with change and instability. Somewhat contradictory and given to internal doubts, but ultimately does not let his internal vacillations undermine his main orientations. Knows how to consistently and persistently overcome all obstacles. Prefers to implement his knowledge into practice. Tries to stabilize any situation. Bravely endures through misfortunes and adversity while not losing his heart and spirit.

Lacks sufficient flexibility in dealing with people and is poor at taking their individual abilities into account. Does not trust those who are light-headed and light-hearted because he is not sure of whether their feelings are trustworthy. Tolerant of defects of those who are close to him; serves as a reliable support for them. Quickly grows tired of interacting with people; quite tolerant of solitude. Restrained and unobtrusive. The objective matters for him are more important than personal relationships and feelings. Usually a private person who does not readily share his experiences with outsiders. Doesn’t demonstrate what he is feeling: hunger, fear, pain, etc. Tries not to burden others with himself; relies on the help of close people only in extreme cases.

He loves precision and concreteness in everything. Consistent and thorough in his activities and decisions. Careful and thorough in carrying out his tasks. Intolerant of slackness and irresponsibility from others. Follows through his assignments to their completion. Trusts only in official sources of information. A good researcher of narrow issues. Delves into all the details without dismissing and losing sight of anything minor. Accurately maintains records, likes to clarify facts, readily informs those who turn to him for advice about any regulations, about which he is usually informed. In an administrative position, he can establish a clear work regimen, discipline, and order. As a manger, he most often adheres to a chain of command. Very operative and conscientious, possesses a sense of duty. Demanding of himself and others. Tries to be even and reasonable, not go to extremes or fall into illusions.

Modest and unpretentious in his household. Tends to be conservative in his views and habits. If he finds his work interesting and inspirational, may give it his preference while neglecting his personal needs, may see the main purpose of his life in his work. Attentive and friendly companion who knows how to patiently listen and give useful advice.