Appearance

The sensory subtype is an authoritative, confident in himself, emotional, and assertive person. Behind his inner restlessness hides a constant thirst for vigorous activity. Inclined to take up too much and frequently ends up wasting his strengths and energies in vain. Despite his best efforts to be diplomatic, at times he’s too critical and categorical. Often feels indignant, nonetheless doesn’t forget to give compliments. Can look down at this conversation partner, act patronizing, poke at him with prickly jokes. But can also be very kind and courteous, and knows how to keep insisting and persuading someone for a long time, if needed. Possess good artistic sensibilities. Knows how to entertain people. Often he is somewhat thin, looks after his figure, periodically takes up physical exercise and sports. Shifts and changes poses frequently. Eyes are commonly not very large and deep seated. His gestures are impatient, movements seem gusty and nervous. Gait is relaxed or even somewhat shaky and muddled. Speech may be rushed, slightly slurred and too fast.

Character

Has the character of a leader. Self-assured, brave, and active. Flexible in changing his tactics. Orients quickly in a changing situation and adopts creative approaches as events unfold. Energetic and sociable. Knows how to strike up useful contacts. Has difficulty with accurately evaluating abilities and capabilities of people in resolution of concrete tasks, often experiences doubts and hesitation over this, which he prefers not to share with others. Can lead a large team. Resolute in extreme situations and quickly finds means to stabilize the situation.

Gravitates towards practical activity. Prefers near-lying, concrete goals that bring some tangible benefits. Tries to improve his competence in his occupation, to raise his own profile and prestige and strengthen his position. In the interest of his business can exert strong pressure on his partners, be overly demanding, and perseverant. The victory must always be attributed to him. Despite the scatteredness of his interests, he tries to bring the most important bulk of work or assignments to completion.

Prefers to have freedom of action. Does not recognize strict regulation and control. Dislikes monotony and routine. Due to his tendency towards irritability, may fall into depression. Quickly grows tired of routine and boredom, then seeks change and new experiences. Active and mobile, tries to be always informed about current events.

Cautious in new ventures, as he doesn’t have a good sense of their prospective future development. Mistrustful of new untested in practice ideas. Strives to understand general patterns and laws that lie behind topics and questions of interest to him, to soberly analyze the situation. Gathers needed information, establishes necessary links, consults with people who are more competent than him. Takes risks only after weighting everything out, but then he acts quickly and decisively. Has strong willpower, endurance, and perseverance in overcoming difficulties, but in the interests of his business is able to agree to temporary compromises.

Has a complex and problematic character. Demands that others need to reckon with him, to recognize his authority, to respect him for his business and personal qualities. Sensitive to criticism, admits his own mistakes with great difficulty. Feeling offended by someone, does not take advice, may even act the opposite. Very vulnerable and insufficiently self-critical, thus only praises of his merits and abilities can encourage him to activity.