Appearance

Active and mobile person. Willingly strikes up and moves around useful social connections. Knows how to give compliments. Talks about his possibilities and capabilities in much detail before people who are close to him, likes to make an impression. Intimate intonations in his voice, personal charm, and confidential manner of behavior, that predisposes towards trust, allow him to quickly win over his conversation partners. Often has convex eyes. His gestures are smooth and confident. His poses seem a tad relaxed. Inclined to dress unconventionally, brightly and extravagantly. Even if he has round forms and inclination to excess weight, doesn’t feel insecure over this and dresses in anything that he likes to wear. Likes to sit in somewhat scattered pose. His gait is elastic, prideful. Holds himself confidently, even authoritatively alike a patron towards others.

Character

Has good organizational skills. Inclined to expand the circle of his acquaintances and the field of his activity. Very curious. Strives to be aware of what is going on, and, given the opportunity, likes to show off his awareness of events. Interested in new approaches for resolution of various problems and willingly promotes them. Facilitates the introduction of new ideas into practice. Uses his authority and influence. Purposeful, but flexible in relationships. Prefers to reach agreements on mutually beneficial terms.

Exhibits large scope in his endeavors. Prefers to solve emerging problem right away, else he can get distracted and then cool off towards them. Inclined to take up many things at once, but doesn’t manage to finish everything due to lack of time, lack of interest, or his moods. Has a poorly developed sense of measure, wants to do more than is possible. Scattering his time and efforts on minor tasks, may miss out on those that are more important and necessary. With difficulty discerns general patterns and trends, so it can take on risky projects. Realizes his projects into reality with much enthusiasm. Being defeated, does not lose heart and soon finds a new application to his abilities.

A manager with good diplomatic skills. Able to persuade and mobilize other people, to inspire them to some new business, or set others against someone who hinders his interests. Usually, gets along well with everyone. In conversation he is polite, courteous, gentle and kind. Delivers plenty of compliments. Predisposes towards trust, creates an atmosphere of intimacy and sincerity. Tries not to bring quarrels to a serious resolution, can hold himself back in time. His democratic behavior, easygoing manner, and personal charisma help him win the sympathy of others.

In the society, he is often in the spotlight. Loves to tell about and to discuss various recent events and news. Knows how to entertain his companions. In need of admiration and recognition, as this stimulates him to even greater activity and enterprise. Despite the fact that he makes an impression of being a frank and sincere person, this openness has limits beyond which he doesn’t allow other people. Only a few people enjoy having his full confidence.

In business he is practical and calculating. Always knows precisely what he wants. Formally he may listen to advice, but makes decisions ??independently. Not economical in small things, but cautious when it comes to large expenditure of material resources. At home, he is accurate and neat, willingly tackles household problems. Requires cleanliness and order from people close to him. Looks after his health and his appearance. Aesthete, likes to dress with taste, values coziness and comfort. Very attentive towards people who are close to him, constantly takes care of them.