Appearance

The logical subtype is impatient and active, loves frequent changes and new impressions. Industrious, hardworking, and very caring. His behavior is unpredictable and characterized by unexpected transitions from aloof contemplation to expedient activity. Keeps certain reserve and distance from other people, and at times can be overly direct, harsh, and inconsiderate in conversation. Very independent and proud, does as he wishes. In conversation he is prickly and ironic, but becomes friendly and shows consideration if he has sympathy and respect for his conversation partner. Noticing that he has offended someone, regrets it and softens his communication, tries to turn everything into a joke, or may even apologize and try to calm the person down. Behind his external seeming inaccessibility he is quite impressionable and vulnerable. Dislikes lack of comfort in all of its manifestations; thus strives to fix, adjust, and adapt everything for greatest convenience. Responsible, reliable, and punctual. Demanding towards himself and others. Holds himself with cold dignity, but at times he can be emotional. His gestures are impulsive, confident, resolute. Gait is quick and measured.

Character

A creative person of practical inclinations. Technological, rational, quick-thinking in business. Has low tolerance for unoriginality, cliches, and primitivism in working methods. Seeks and searched for new methods for improving labor. Skeptical and distrustful towards new ideas, oriented at quick and concrete results. Does not suffice with old approaches and takes risks in testing innovative solutions in practice.

After verifying the effectiveness of a new method or approach, develops, improves and polishes it further, demonstrating ingenuity and perseverance. Knows how to squeeze the most out of an idea. Hardworking and energetic, cannot stand wasteful expenditures of time and efforts. Likes to work as hard as he can, quickly and efficiently, with high productivity. Appreciates convenience and good working conditions.

This is an individualist, on whom it’s difficult to impose anything. Prefers to solve his problems on his own, by the means he has at his disposal. Does not like asking for help or loaning anything. Prefers to have all he needs at his disposal, to not depend on anyone else. Everything that is needed for work, project, or business he acquires in advance. Tries to have the entire inventory of “tools” needed for rational labor and active leisure time.

All of the adaptations, equipment, and tools needed for his work he keeps in perfect order, which allows to save time in work when they become needed. Becomes very upset if he forgets to put something in its place and then has to search for it for a long time. Dislikes paperwork drudgery and finds opportunities to reduce it to a minimum. All the needed documentation he keeps in order to avoid further wasting of time.

Usually reaches a high level of professionalism and excellence in his occupation, but is somewhat unsure in himself and diffident, prone to having doubts and fluctuations. In need of moral and material incentives. Undemonstrative, but is very sensitive to the assessment of his abilities and becomes offended if his work is not noticed and not praised. At the same time, dislikes undeserved compliments. Respects capable and talented people; tries to create all the possible conditions for the development of their abilities.