Appearance

The sensory subtype is composed and cordial, not demonstrative, obstinate and uncompromising in defending his views and interests. Supports his positions rationally by logic and facts, and not by thought-up or assumed accounts. Diligent, laborious, patient, persistent in his work and studies. If some project captures his interest, he will tirelessly try to improve his results, both intellectual and material. At times he needs a change of occupation, but will attempt to bring previous work to completion. From time to time he becomes contemplative, withdraws into himself, distances from his social circle, submerges into his own problems. Somewhat restricted in dialogue, may be brief and to the point, but tries to be cordial and good-natured if he feels tensions come up conversation. Prefers items that are original and of good quality, yet simple and unpretentious, enjoys handmade things. Aesthete, pays attention to his health, appearance, and figure, tries to dress tastefully. Has graciously lazy gestures, at the same time confident and precise movements. Gait is a little relaxed and springy. Doesn’t like to hurry, but neither is he slow. Seems somewhat proud and haughty.

Character

Original person with strongly expressed individuality, but due to indecisiveness and modesty may prefer to be in the background. Combines sober realism and practicality with a drive for self-development. If he finds his calling, can pursue it for a long time, eventually achieving high skill and professionalism. He is never fully satisfied with what has been achieved and constantly develops it further, providing the best form for the content. Curious, tangentially interested in other ways for expressing and apply his talents and abilities, trying himself in various directions. However, he poorly sees future prospects of projects and work, and due to this may miss out on important opportunities. Frequently feels disappointed regarding lost opportunities.

Aesthete who loves convenience, nature, travel. Willingly shares his impressions and stories of the world around him with those he’s sympathetic towards. Possesses a sense of humor with a touch of irony. Notices many details. Very impressionable. Intolerant of boorishness, poor tastes, callousness and crassness. Dislikes pathos, demonstrative appeals and calls, as well as prideful attitudes, conceit. He’s impressed by bold, sincere, friendly, and open people, who encourage him, instill belief in success and lift his spirits. An unpredictable and independent by nature partner sparks in him a sense of curiosity and a desire to keep such a person.

Uncompromising in matters of principle. Does not like to concede once conquered positions, although also knows how to take into account the rules and regulations of his milieu. Quite mobile, cherishes inner personal peace and freedom of action. Sometimes finds it interesting to test himself in complex situations, to overcome difficulties, which adds to his self-affirmation, however, dislikes taking excessive risks and recklessness. Suffers from changeable moods that affect his performance. Does not like forcing himself to do something. If others violate his inner balance, he can get hot-tempered, flare up, of which later he may regret. In most situations tries to be composed and loyal.