Self-Preservation Sevens express gluttony through the formation of alliances. They typically collect
around them a kind of family network, in the sense of banding together with trusted others and
creating a good “mafia” or partisan group through which they can get their needs met. They rely
mostly on those they trust. These Sevens create a kind of surrogate family of people they value—a
family in which they typically occupy a privileged position.

These Sevens are very practical, good at networking, and skilled at getting what they want and
finding a good deal; they tend to be opportunistic, self-interested, pragmatic, calculating, and clever.
They readily recognize opportunities for creating an advantage for themselves. In this way, Naranjo
explains, gluttony expresses itself in the Self-Preservation Seven in an excessive concern with making
a good deal at every opportunity.

Self-Preservation Sevens always have their nose to the wind for good opportunities. They find
ways to get what they need and want, and they have an easy way of finding pathways to making things
happen for themselves—whether it’s finding the right people, the most advantageous connections, or
a fortuitous career opportunity. They have their ears to the ground and are socially adept.
These Sevens make business connections and network easily because they are alert and mindful to
the opportunities that come along that can support their survival. They hold the position that if you are
not alert to opportunities, you will lose out. This Self-Preservation theme is expressed well in the
proverb “The alligator that sleeps becomes a bag.” There’s an element of self-interest in the alliances
the Self-Preservation Seven makes that may or may not be denied by (or unconscious in) someone
with this subtype. Naranjo says there is a kind of reciprocal interest in these relationships, expressed
in the idea that “I will serve thee, and thou will serve me.” On the low side of this kind of
arrangement, an element of corruption can be present.

Stylistically, Self-Preservation Sevens are cheerful and amiable, with traits that resemble a
hedonistic, “playboy” or “playgirl” type. They tend to be warm, friendly, and talkative. (They love to
talk.) They can express a kind of greed and impatience that reflects their desire to consume as many
pleasurable experiences as possible; they want to eat everything. They expend a lot of energy on
controlling everything, handling things without being noticed. And most of the time, they get away
with getting what they want.

The dominant traits of the Self-Preservation Seven subtype stand out as a love of pleasure and a
self-interested focus on getting what they need to feel secure. In seeking security, however, they can
often confuse desires with needs. These are people who usually feel a need to have a lot of resources,
including money and other supplies that support survival, and they may panic if they feel a sense of
scarcity.

According to Naranjo, the three main fixations of the Self-Preservation Sevens are strategy,
rebellion, and isolation, though it may be hard to see these characters as isolated because they tend to
be very popular. But their strategic and mental nature, together with the prominence of their selfinterest,
can isolate them from others at a deeper level.

Self-Preservation Sevens cultivate a sense of being kind and generous—they like to feel that
everyone depends on them. They may feel omnipotent and they may sometimes use people. They may
also feel that normal rules don’t apply to them—that for them, there is no law, and they can do what
they please. This kind of assertion of their freedom and their ability to do whatever they need to do to
support their self-interest helps them feel safer in the world.