Sexual Eights have a strong antisocial tendency. People with this subtype are provocative people who express lust through open rebellion- through declaring in word and deed that their values differ from the norm. Along with being the most rebellious of the Eight subtypes, the Sexual Eight is, interestingly, also the most emotional.


This outspoken, rebellious Eight likes to be sen as bad – or at least they don't mind it – and they tend not to feel any guilt over the rebellious things they do. It's almost a matter of pride for Sexual Eights to go against the stream of convention or to disrespect rules and laws.


In childhood, many of these Eights experienced disrespect and a lack of affection and attention from one or both parents, so they decided (consciously or unconsciously) not to recognize maternal or paternal authority. This first rebellion against authority became the template for their strong rebellious tendencies.


The name given to the Sexual Eight is “Possession,” which refers to a kind of charismatic taking over (or dominance) of the whole environment- an energetic capture of people's attention. These Eights display the idea of “Possession” in that they can take over a whole scene energetically, becoming the center of things. Sexual Eights like to feel their power by possessing everyone's attention. They express the idea that “the world begins to run when they arrive.”



Sexual Eights express a need for dominance and power over others. They don't want to lose control of anything or anyone, and they want to influence people with their words. Everything-- whether it is a person or a material thing- is an object to possess. These Eights don't seek material security; rather, they seek to get power over people, things, and situations.


In getting and maintaining this power, Sexual Eights can be fascinating and charismatic. Their power comes through a kind of seductiveness and intensity that differentiates them stylistically from the other two Eight subtypes. As Naranjo explains, these Eights have more colors in their feathers; they are more magnetic and more outspoken. They have great powers of seduction.


These Eights look voraciously for love, sex, and excess pleasure in life. They seek adventures, risks, challenges, and the thrill of an adrenaline rush. In line with their passionate forward movement into action, they may be particularly intolerant of weakness, dependence and slow people.


As the most emotional of the Eights, the sexual subtype displays a great deal of passion that may at time gets expressed through emotions that may seem surprising to others and atypical for the other Eights. In these very passionate, emotional Eights there's often a detachment of the intellect- while Sexual Eights may be very intelligent, they express action and passion more than contemplation in the things they do.


These Eights feel things deeply. This capacity can benefit a good relationship, but it can be a problem when a relationship isn't going well. In romantic settings, Sexual Eights may encourage their partners to become very dependent on them or to treat them as the energetic center of their lives. They demand loyalty, but may not be faithful in return. (England's King Henry VIII may serve as an example.) And they tend to have possessive relationships not only with lovers, but, also with friends, objects, places and situations.


This subtype can usually be readily recognized as Eights and is as not likely to be confused with others types. They may look like Sexual fours in that both types can be angry, emotionally and demanding but sexual eights distinguish themselves in their deeply confident (or overconfident) manner in contrast with the Sexual Four's' sense of inner deficiency.